Now let's talk about the center of SSM,
which are documents.
And documents can be written either in JSON or YAML,
in which you define parameters,
to define what the document does, so actions,
and then you will have the document being executed
by a specific service.
So many documents already exist in AWS
and we can leverage them obviously
to go faster in what we do.
So this is what a documents may look like.
So as you can see, there's a description,
there's a bunch of parameters,
and then there's some steps and each step has an action
in which maybe you can run a command.
So this is just a simple example.
And if you start using SSM a lot
you will write your own SSM documents, okay?
But what we get out of this
is that they sort of look like
the idea behind CloudFormation,
but this is at the center of SSM now we have documents
and they're gonna be how we can describe what SSM does.
So these documents can be simply used to run commands,
and we'll see this in this lecture,
but also these documents can be applied
to other SSM features such as state manager, patch manager,
automation, and documents can even retrieve some data
from the SSM parameter store
to be able to give you some kind of modularity
and dynamicity
in the way you want to have the documents behave, okay?
So let's have a look
at how we can create documents right now.
So if I scroll down on a systems manager at the very bottom
under shared resources,
we have documents,
and documents are in this page.
So we have documents owned by Amazon,
some owned by me,
but of course,
none has been owned me because I haven't created one.
Shared with me.
If you can share documents with other people,
or all documents, if you have to have the three of them.
So in this example,
I'm going to show you the documents owned by Amazon,
and one of them for example, is called
AWS-ApplyPatchBaseline.
So I click on it
and I can see that this is useful for scanning
or installing patches from a patch baseline,
as we'll see what that means in a few lecturers.
The platform is Windows.
We can see when it was created, okay?
And who is the owner,
and what is the latest version.
So this document looks good.
We can look at the contents of the patch baseline.
So this is written for this one in JSON,
and as we can see, there is a parameter,
one or two parameters.
So operation and snapshot ID,
and then there is a bunch of runtime config
as well as lot of commands that is going to happen.
So complicated, but not for us to maintain
because this is maintained by AWS.
We can look at the version.
So currently we cannot view the document versions
because we don't own it.
So it will always be version one,
but your own documents could be versioned.
And in details,
we can have a look at the different parameters.
For example, this one is on document version one,
and it has two parameters, operation and snapshot ID,
which are relevant to this document.
Okay, so if I look at the document itself,
we could create our own documents.
So it could be a command or session document,
or an automation document,
and we'll see commands in this one,
but I want you to show you this at a high level.
So the first way we're going to apply our documents
is using the run command SSM feature.
So the idea is that with run command
we're going to execute an entire document,
which is indeed a script,
or just run a single command
across a fleet of EC2 Instances.
And for this,
we can use resource groups that we have created from before.
So the run command has a feature of rate control
and error control.
So imagine you're playing a command to 1,000 instances
and it will take them down for a minute or two.
Then you want to make sure you do this progressively,
and that in case you have any errors,
you are able to stop running the command in your fleets.
It is fully integrated with IAM and CloudTrail.
So you can see who runs commands.
There is no need for SSH,
so the agent itself will be running the commands,
but systems manager does not need SSH access
to your instances to run the command,
which is quite magical and cool.
The command outputs can be shown in the console,
but it can also be sent to your S3 buckets
or to CloudWatch Logs.
And finally, to know the status of your run command,
you can look in the console obviously,
but you can also send them to SNS to get information around
in progress, success, failed and so on.
And finally, for automations and EventBridge
for CloudWatch Events,
can be used to invoke run commands.
So let's take an example.
Run command can be run across a fleet of EC2 Instances.
The outputs of the command itself can be sensed for analysis
in CloudWatch Logs or Amazon history,
notifications is through SNS,
and events triggered in EventBridge
could have a rule to trigger a run command itself.
So what we want to do is to install an HTTP server
onto my three instances, okay?
But first, to verify that it will work,
we need to open up the security group.
So let's go into the security group rules.
And under the inbound rule,
I'm going to add a rule for HTTP on port 80
coming from anywhere.
So this is allowing us to access our instances of HTTP,
and we can make sure that our instances
currently do not run a web server
by taking, for example, one of these IPs.
So we'll copy this IP and then paste it here.
And as we can see,
we are not getting anything.
So let's go back into my security group.
HTTP port 80,
and it should not time out,
it should just give me an error.
So let's try again.
Which is just a weird behavior of Firefox.
So I'm going to copy this and I'm gonna go into Chrome.
And as you can see, if I go into my IP,
I get a site can't be reached.
That means that the port 80 is open,
but no HTTP server is currently running on my EC2 Instance.
So, okay, so that's cool.
We want to now install our web server onto these instances.
So let's go into systems manager
and we're going to run a command,
but first we're gonna need to create our own documents.
So this document is going to be for a command or session.
And then we'll call this one, InstallApache.
And the target type is going to be for an EC2 Instance.
Now, the document type is going to be a command document
and we can specify it either in JSON or YAML.
So we'll specify in YAML form
because I think this is a bit easier to read.
And to make it easy,
you can just get the code directly from the SSM directory
and copy this entire file document-install-apache, okay?
And going back here, paste it and we're good to go.
So in this YAML document, we can easily read it.
We have one parameter, which is a message,
which by default is Hello World,
and this is the welcome message we want you to have
as part of our EC2 Instances, their web server.
And then the main step is to run a ShellScript
and it has several run commands in it, okay?
So we update the instance,
we install HTTPD,
we start HTTPD, we enable it.
So this is in case of restarts.
And then we echo message from host name
into this file right here, in this HTML.
And so this message under this double brackets
is coming from the parameter message above, okay?
So I will go and create the document.
So this document is now owned by me
and it's called Intel HTTP.
And so now we need to go into the run command and run it.
So lets go into the run command direct here.
We're going to run a command,
and we need to find the document itself.
So we're going to go on owned by me.
Find Apache.
I will select this one, version one.
And then we can customize the message.
So for example, we can say, Custom Hello World.
And for the targets,
we can either specify instance tags
or we can choose instances manually,
or we can choose a resource group,
and as you can see,
the resources we've created from before
are available in this console.
So I will choose my instances manually,
and I will actually choose my three instances right here,
because I want to be able to install HTTP
to all them three, okay?
Next, for other parameters.
So we can have a timeout in terms of the commands.
So if the commands don't finish within 600 seconds,
so 10 minutes,
then you should fail the command.
So this is a much larger timeout
than what we need for this command, this is fine.
And then rate control.
So this is pretty cool.
The concurrency.
So do we want to run the commands on 50 targets at a time
or maybe one target at a time, so one by one?
Or maybe percentage, so 33% at a time?
It's up to you.
But I will choose for this example, one target at a time.
And then the error threshold.
So that means just after one error,
you know, on the first error,
then this will stop the entire task, okay?
But maybe you know that some of these commands
will have errors and so maybe you're saying that
as long as 5% of my instances don't error out,
this is fine, please keep on going,
but if you go above this 5% of error threshold,
then stop running the command.
So right now we'll keep the error at zero
because we don't want any errors.
Now, for the output options,
we can create an S3 buckets to send the output to,
but I will disable it,
or we can send logs to CloudWatch Logs,
and for example, I will call it runCommandOutput
as my log group name.
SNS notifications.
If you wanted to get notifications
about the status of this run command.
And this is nice, we can get the equivalent
AWS CLI interface command
if we wanted to run this directly from within the CLI.
So I'll click on run.
And as we can see,
we have three targets and one of them is in progress
while the other two are pending.
So let me refresh this.
And as we can see now,
because we did one at a time,
it will go this one in progress and it will be successful,
then this one, and then that one.
So in here, I'm able to refresh and here we go.
The first one in the first two actually were a success.
So we can see the start time and the end time.
And for each of the targets, we can click on view outputs.
So the output is literally the output of the command itself.
So it shows you a maximum of 48,000 characters.
So here is all the outputs that is available from it,
and as we can see at the very end is going to say that,
if we're very lucky, HTTPD was installed.
Very nice. Okay?
And then complete, so the command is complete,
and this is complete from the YAML install.
And you can click on the CloudWatch Logs
to view the logs directly of your commands
into the CloudWatch Log groups.
So this is my run command output log group,
and we can see that
we have many different streams available here
for the standard out and standard error
in case some errors were happening onto our instances,
but if you go to standard outs,
as we can see, we have the five commands,
and what happened
and the fact that they did install and enable HTTPD.
So this is great.
We're good to go.
So back into our run command,
we can look at the command history.
This one was a success,
and yes, three instances
were having their command run on it.
And if I go back now
to my EC2 management console and refresh.
So they're still here obviously,
but now if I click on this IPv4 and paste it,
then we're going to get a Custom Hello World
from this IP right here.
And if I go to another EC2 Instance,
this one,
we're gonna get again, a Custom Hello World.
So this is a custom message that I did pass to my documents
and the IP is going to be different on this one.
That means that the command was run differently
on two different EC2 Instances.
So this is pretty cool
because here we are able to run a command
across three EC2 Instances,
but remember, these EC2 Instances
do not have the SSH port open, okay?
So what happens is that the SSM agent
did run the commands for us,
which is super helpful
because we don't compromise on security.
So this is it for this lecture.
I hope you liked it,
and I will see you in the next lecture.